# Swift Bindings

UniFFI ships with production-quality support for generating Swift bindings.
Concepts from the UDL file map into Swift as follows:

* Primitive datatypes map to their obvious Swift counterpart, e.g. `u32` becomes `UInt32`,
  `string` becomes `String`, `bytes` becomes `Data`, etc.
* An object interface declared as `interface T` is represented as a Swift `protocol TProtocol`
  and a concrete Swift `class T` that conforms to it. Having the protocol declared explicitly
  can be useful for mocking instances of the class in unittests.
* A dictionary struct declared as `dictionary T` is represented as a Swift `struct T`
  with public mutable fields.
* An enum declared `enum T` or `[Enum] interface T` is represented as a Swift
  `enum T` with appropriate variants.
* Optional types are represented using Swift's builtin optional type syntax `T?`.
* Sequences are represented as Swift arrays, and Maps as Swift dictionaries.
* Errors are represented as Swift enums that conform to the `Error` protocol.
* Function calls that have an associated error type are marked with `throws`,
  and hence must be called using one of Swift's `try` syntax variants.
* Failing assertions, Rust panics, and other unexpected errors in the generated code
  are translated into a private enum conforming to the `Error` protocol.
    * If this happens inside a throwing Swift function, it can be caught and handled
      by a catch-all `catch` statement (but do so at your own risk, because it indicates
      that something has gone seriously wrong).
    * If this happens inside a non-throwing Swift function, it will be converted
      into a fatal Swift error that cannot be caught.

## Generated files

UniFFI generates several kinds of files for Swift bindings:

* C header files declaring the FFI structs/functions used by the Rust scaffolding code
* A modulemap, which defines a Swift module for the C FFI definitions in the header file.
* A Swift source file that defines the Swift API used by consumers.  This imports the FFI module.

# Swift 6 Support

UniFFI has partial support for Swift 6. We would welcome all help improving this.

## Sendable

Most generated code will conform to `Sendable`. Depending on your Swift compiler options,
you may find rough edges where this support doesn't quite exist.
At time of writing, it is known that async code will not conform.
This is being tracked in [#2448](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/issues/2448)

Note that `Sendable` conformance does impose obligations on code you write - for example, when
you implement a Foreign Trait, the "protocol" generated by UniFFI will require Sendable conformance,
therefore your implementation of that protocol must too.
See the Swift documentation for more.