docs/manual/src/types/records.md, before:

# Records

Records are how UniFFI represents structured data.
They consist of one of more named *fields*, each of which holds a value of a particular type. A rust struct without any methods.

Records were sometimes referred to as a dictionary due to the UDL syntax, but we try to use Record.

There's further specific detail for [UDL](../udl/records.md) and [proc-macros](../proc_macro/records.md)

They can be exported as a simple rust struct:

```rust
#[derive(uniffi::Record)] // if using proc-macros
struct TodoEntry {
    done: bool,
    due_date: Option<u64>,
    text: String,
}
```

The fields in a record can be of any UniFFI supported type, including objects, vecs, maps and other records.
The limitations are:

* They cannot recursively contain another instance of the *same* record type.
* They cannot contain references to callback interfaces (another reason callback interfaces should be avoided, use traits)
* You must directly use an owned UniFFI supported type directly - no references, no smart-pointers etc.

# Fields holding object references

A record containing an [interface](./interfaces.md) must use an `Arc<>`.

```rust
struct TodoEntry {
    owner: std::sync::Arc<User>,
    text: String,
}
```

Depending on the language, the foreign-language bindings may also need to be aware of
these embedded references. For example in Kotlin, each Object instance must be explicitly
destroyed to avoid leaking the underlying memory, and this also applies to Objects stored
in record fields.

You can read more about managing object references in the section on [interfaces](./interfaces.md).

## Default values for fields

Fields can be specified with a default value.

```rust
struct TodoEntry {
    #[uniffi(default = false)] // or specified in UDL.
    done: bool,
    text: String,
}
```

The above example shows proc-macros; see also the [UDL docs](../udl/records.md#default-values-for-fields)

The corresponding generated Kotlin code would be equivalent to:

```kotlin
data class TodoEntry (
    var done: Boolean = false,
    var text: String
)  {
    // ...
}
```

## Optional fields and default values

Fields can be made optional by using `Option<T>`

```rust
struct TodoEntry {
    done: bool,
    text: Option<String>,
}
```

The corresponding generated Kotlin code would be equivalent to:

```kotlin
data class TodoEntry (
    var done: Boolean,
    var text: String?
)  {
    // ...
}
```

The default for this can be `None`, which would translate to `null`/`None`/`etc` in the bindings. Kotlin generates:

```kotlin
data class TodoEntry (
    var done: Boolean,
    var text: String? = null
)  {
    // ...
}
```

## Exposing methods from standard Rust traits

While less useful for Records, there are a number of standard Rust traits (`Debug`, `Eq` etc) you can expose, so, eg, Python
might generate `__repr__()` or `__eq__()` methods - [see the docs for this feature](./uniffi_traits.md).

Commit message:

Methods on records for Swift and Kotlin.

docs/manual/src/types/records.md, after:

# Records

Records are how UniFFI represents structured data.
They consist of one of more named *fields*, each of which holds a value of a particular type. A rust struct without any methods.

Records were sometimes referred to as a dictionary due to the UDL syntax, but we try to use Record.

There's further specific detail for [UDL](../udl/records.md) and [proc-macros](../proc_macro/records.md)

They can be exported as a simple rust struct:

```rust
#[derive(uniffi::Record)] // if using proc-macros
struct TodoEntry {
    done: bool,
    due_date: Option<u64>,
    text: String,
}
```

The fields in a record can be of any UniFFI supported type, including objects, vecs, maps and other records.
The limitations are:

* They cannot recursively contain another instance of the *same* record type.
* They cannot contain references to callback interfaces (another reason callback interfaces should be avoided, use traits)
* You must directly use an owned UniFFI supported type directly - no references, no smart-pointers etc.

# Fields holding object references

A record containing an [interface](./interfaces.md) must use an `Arc<>`.

```rust
struct TodoEntry {
    owner: std::sync::Arc<User>,
    text: String,
}
```

Depending on the language, the foreign-language bindings may also need to be aware of
these embedded references. For example in Kotlin, each Object instance must be explicitly
destroyed to avoid leaking the underlying memory, and this also applies to Objects stored
in record fields.

You can read more about managing object references in the section on [interfaces](./interfaces.md).

## Default values for fields

Fields can be specified with a default value.

```rust
struct TodoEntry {
    #[uniffi(default = false)] // or specified in UDL.
    done: bool,
    text: String,
}
```

The above example shows proc-macros; see also the [UDL docs](../udl/records.md#default-values-for-fields)

The corresponding generated Kotlin code would be equivalent to:

```kotlin
data class TodoEntry (
    var done: Boolean = false,
    var text: String
)  {
    // ...
}
```

## Optional fields and default values

Fields can be made optional by using `Option<T>`

```rust
struct TodoEntry {
    done: bool,
    text: Option<String>,
}
```

The corresponding generated Kotlin code would be equivalent to:

```kotlin
data class TodoEntry (
    var done: Boolean,
    var text: String?
)  {
    // ...
}
```

The default for this can be `None`, which would translate to `null`/`None`/`etc` in the bindings. Kotlin generates:

```kotlin
data class TodoEntry (
    var done: Boolean,
    var text: String? = null
)  {
    // ...
}
```

## Methods on Records.

proc-macros allow you to use `#[uniffi::export]` on an `impl` block for a record,
and the bindings will generate a method which calls into the Rust method.
But take care - every time one of the methods is called, the entire record will be copied by-value across the FFI.
You probably want to avoid this for large records or in performance sensitive areas.

## Exposing methods from standard Rust traits

While less useful for Records, there are a number of standard Rust traits (`Debug`, `Eq` etc) you can expose, so, eg, Python
might generate `__repr__()` or `__eq__()` methods - [see the docs for this feature](./uniffi_traits.md).
