# UniFFI Glossary

This page contains terms used throughout these docs

## Scaffolding

UniFFI-generated Rust code.
This is an `extern "C"` API that helps the foreign bindings make Rust calls.

Scaffolding is generated by Rust macros and not found in source code.  If you use proc-macro, you
can see it by using `cargo expand` or expanding the UniFFI macros in an IDE.  If you use UDL files,
you can see it by running `cargo build`, then finding the generated file in the `target` directory.

## Bindings

UniFFI-generated code in a foreign language.
This implements the exported Rust API by calling in to the Rust scaffolding.

## Lower

The process of converting a high-level Rust type into a lower-level FFI type in the scaffolding
code.  Alternatively, converting a high-level foreign language type to the same FFI type in the
bindings code.  See [lifting and lowering](./internals/lifting_and_lowering.md) for details.

"lowered type", refers to the FFI type that a high-level top lowers to.  For example, `RustBuffer`
is the lowered type for `String`.

## Lift

The process of converting a low-level FFI type into a high-level Rust type into in the scaffolding
code.  Alternatively, converting the same FFI type into a high-level foreign language type in the
bindings code. See [lifting and lowering](./internals/lifting_and_lowering.md) for details.

The process of converting a low-level FFI type into a high-level Rust/foreign language type as
described in [lifting and lowering](./internals/lifting_and_lowering.md).
