docs/manual/src/Overview.md, before:

# UniFFI

UniFFI is a tool that automatically generates foreign-language bindings targeting Rust libraries.  
It fits in the practice of consolidating business logic in a single Rust library while targeting multiple platforms, making it simpler to develop and maintain a cross-platform codebase.  
Note that this tool will not help you ship a Rust library to these platforms, but simply not have to write bindings code by hand [[0]](https://i.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/newsfeed/000/572/078/d6d.jpg).

## Design

UniFFI requires to write an Interface Definition Language (based on [WebIDL](https://heycam.github.io/webidl/)) file describing the methods and data structures available to the targeted languages.  
This .udl (UniFFI Definition Language) file, whose definitions must match with the exposed Rust code, is then used to generate Rust *scaffolding* code and foreign-languages *bindings*. This process can take place either during the build process or be manually initiated by the developer.

![uniffi diagram](./uniffi_diagram.png)

## Supported languages

- Kotlin
- Swift
- Python
- Ruby

Commit message:

Experiment: Use Rust code directly as the interface definition.
This is a fun little something I've been messing around with,
partly just to learn more about Rust macros and `syn`, and partly
to see if they could make a good replacement for our current use
of WebIDL for an interface definition language.

Key ideas:

* Declare the UniFFI component interface using a restricted subset
  of Rust syntax, directly as part of the code that implements the
  Rust side of the component. There is no separate .udl file.

* Use a procedural macro to insert the Rust scaffolding directly
  at crate build time, rather than requiring a separate `build.rs`
  setup to generate and include it.

* When generating the foreign-language bindings, have `uniffi-bindgen`
  parse the Rust source directly in order to find the component
  interface.

This seems to work surprisingly well so far. If we do decide to
go this route, the code here will need a lot more polish before
it's ready to land...but it works! And it works in a way that's
not too conceptually different from what we're currently doing
with a separate `.udl` file.

docs/manual/src/Overview.md, after:

# UniFFI

UniFFI is a tool that automatically generates foreign-language bindings targeting Rust libraries.  
It fits in the practice of consolidating business logic in a single Rust library while targeting multiple platforms, making it simpler to develop and maintain a cross-platform codebase.  
Note that this tool will not help you ship a Rust library to these platforms, but simply not have to write bindings code by hand [[0]](https://i.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/newsfeed/000/572/078/d6d.jpg).

## Design

UniFFI requires you to declare the interface you want to expose to other languages using a restricted
subset of Rust syntax, along with a couple of helper macros. This interface declaration is used
to generate two things:

* Alongside your hand-written Rust code, UniFFI will generate some Rust *scaffolding* that exposes
your Rust datatypes and functions over a low-level C-compatible FFI.
* For each target foreign language, UniFFI will use the interface declaration to generate
*foreign-language bindings* that consume this low-level FFI and expose it via more idiomatic
higher-level code in the target language.

![uniffi diagram](./uniffi_diagram.png)

## Supported languages

- Kotlin
- Swift
- Python
- Ruby
