docs/manual/src/internals/object_references.md, before:

# Managing Object References

Uniffi [interfaces](../udl/interfaces.md) represent instances of objects
that have methods and contain shared mutable state. One of Rust's core innovations
is its ability to provide compile-time guarantees about working with such instances,
including:

* Ensuring that each instance has a unique owner responsible for disposing of it.
* Ensuring that there is only a single writer *or* multiple readers of an object
  active at any point in the program.
* Guarding against data races.

Uniffi aims to maintain these guarantees even when the Rust code is being invoked
from a foreign language, at the cost of turning them into run-time checks rather
than compile-time guarantees.

We achieve this by indirecting all object access through a
[handle map](https://docs.rs/ffi-support/0.4.0/ffi_support/handle_map/index.html),
a mapping from opaque integer handles to object instances. This indirection
imposes a small runtime cost but helps us guard against errors or oversights
in the generated bindings.

For each interface declared in the UDL, the uniffi-generated Rust scaffolding
will create a global [ffi_support::ConcurrentHandleMap](https://docs.rs/ffi-support/0.4.0/ffi_support/handle_map/struct.ConcurrentHandleMap.html) that is responsible for owning all instances
of that interface, and handing out references to them when methods are called.

For example, given a interface definition like this:

```idl
interface TodoList {
    constructor();
    void add_item(string todo);
    sequence<string> get_items();
};
```

The Rust scaffolding would define a lazyily-initialized global static like:

```rust
lazy_static! {
    static ref UNIFFI_HANDLE_MAP_TODOLIST: ConcurrentHandleMap<TodoList> = ConcurrentHandleMap::new();
}
```

On the Rust side of the generated bindings, the instance constructor will create an instance of the
corresponding `TodoList` Rust struct, insert it into the handlemap, and return the resulting integer
handle to the foreign language code:

```rust
pub extern "C" fn todolist_TodoList_new(err: &mut ExternError) -> u64 {
    // Give ownership of the new instance to the handlemap.
    // We will only ever operate on borrowed references to it.
    UNIFFI_HANDLE_MAP_TODOLIST.insert_with_output(err, || TodoList::new())
}
```

When invoking a method on the instance, the foreign-language code passes the integer handle back
to the Rust code, which borrows a reference to the instance from the handlemap for the duration
of the method call:

```rust
pub extern "C" fn todolist_TodoList_add_item(handle: u64, todo: RustBuffer, err: &mut ExternError) -> () {
    let todo = <String as uniffi::ViaFfi>::try_lift(todo).unwrap()
    // Borrow a reference to the instance so that we can call a method on it.
    UNIFFI_HANDLE_MAP_TODOLIST.call_with_result_mut(err, handle, |obj| -> Result<(), TodoError> {
        TodoList::add_item(obj, todo)
    })
}
```

Finally, when the foreign-language code frees the instance, it passes the integer handle to
a special destructor function so that the Rust code can delete it from the handlemap:

```rust
pub extern "C" fn ffi_todolist_TodoList_object_free(handle: u64) {
    UNIFFI_HANDLE_MAP_TODOLIST.delete_u64(handle);
}
```

This indirection gives us some important safety properties:

* If the generated bindings incorrectly pass an invalid handle, or a handle for a different type of object,
  then the handlemap will throw an error with high probability, providing some amount of run-time typechecking
  for correctness of the generated bindings.
* The `ConcurrentHandleMap` class wraps each instance with a `Mutex`, which serializes access to the instance
  and upholds Rust's guarantees against shared mutable access.

Commit message:

Add narrative docs for threadsafe instances.

docs/manual/src/internals/object_references.md, after:

# Managing Object References

Uniffi [interfaces](../udl/interfaces.md) represent instances of objects
that have methods and contain shared mutable state. One of Rust's core innovations
is its ability to provide compile-time guarantees about working with such instances,
including:

* Ensuring that each instance has a unique owner responsible for disposing of it.
* Ensuring that there is only a single writer *or* multiple readers of an object
  active at any point in the program.
* Guarding against data races.

Uniffi aims to maintain these guarantees even when the Rust code is being invoked
from a foreign language, at the cost of turning them into run-time checks rather
than compile-time guarantees.

## Handle Maps

We achieve this by indirecting all object access through a
[handle map](https://docs.rs/ffi-support/0.4.0/ffi_support/handle_map/index.html),
a mapping from opaque integer handles to object instances. This indirection
imposes a small runtime cost but helps us guard against errors or oversights
in the generated bindings.

For each interface declared in the UDL, the uniffi-generated Rust scaffolding
will create a global handlemap that is responsible for owning all instances
of that interface, and handing out references to them when methods are called.

For example, given a interface definition like this:

```idl
interface TodoList {
    constructor();
    void add_item(string todo);
    sequence<string> get_items();
};
```

The Rust scaffolding would define a lazyily-initialized global static like:

```rust
lazy_static! {
    static ref UNIFFI_HANDLE_MAP_TODOLIST: ConcurrentHandleMap<TodoList> = ConcurrentHandleMap::new();
}
```

On the Rust side of the generated bindings, the instance constructor will create an instance of the
corresponding `TodoList` Rust struct, insert it into the handlemap, and return the resulting integer
handle to the foreign language code:

```rust
pub extern "C" fn todolist_TodoList_new(err: &mut ExternError) -> u64 {
    // Give ownership of the new instance to the handlemap.
    // We will only ever operate on borrowed references to it.
    UNIFFI_HANDLE_MAP_TODOLIST.insert_with_output(err, || TodoList::new())
}
```

When invoking a method on the instance, the foreign-language code passes the integer handle back
to the Rust code, which borrows a mutable reference to the instance from the handlemap for the duration
of the method call:

```rust
pub extern "C" fn todolist_TodoList_add_item(handle: u64, todo: RustBuffer, err: &mut ExternError) -> () {
    let todo = <String as uniffi::ViaFfi>::try_lift(todo).unwrap()
    // Borrow a reference to the instance so that we can call a method on it.
    UNIFFI_HANDLE_MAP_TODOLIST.call_with_result_mut(err, handle, |obj| -> Result<(), TodoError> {
        TodoList::add_item(obj, todo)
    })
}
```

Finally, when the foreign-language code frees the instance, it passes the integer handle to
a special destructor function so that the Rust code can delete it from the handlemap:

```rust
pub extern "C" fn ffi_todolist_TodoList_object_free(handle: u64) {
    UNIFFI_HANDLE_MAP_TODOLIST.delete_u64(handle);
}
```

This indirection gives us some important safety properties:

* If the generated bindings incorrectly pass an invalid handle, or a handle for a different type of object,
  then the handlemap will throw an error with high probability, providing some amount of run-time typechecking
  for correctness of the generated bindings.
* The handlemap can ensure we uphold Rust's requirements around unique mutable references and threadsafey,
  using a combination of compile-time checks and runtime locking depending on the details of the underlying
  Rust struct that implements the interface.

## Managing Concurrency

By default, uniffi uses the [ffi_support::ConcurrentHandleMap](https://docs.rs/ffi-support/0.4.0/ffi_support/handle_map/struct.ConcurrentHandleMap.html) struct as the handlemap for each declared instance. This class
wraps each instance with a `Mutex`, which serializes access to the instance and upholds Rust's guarantees
against shared mutable access.  This approach is simple and safe, but it means that all method calls
on an instance are run in a strictly sequential fashion, limiting concurrency.

For instances that are explicited tagged with the `[Threadsafe]` attribute, uniffi instead uses
a custom `ArcHandleMap` struct. This replaces the run-time `Mutex` with compile-time assertions
about the safety of the underlying Rust struct. Specifically:

* The `ArcHandleMap` will never give out a mutable reference to an instance, forcing the
  underlying struct to use interior mutability and manage its own locking.
* The `ArcHandleMap` can only contain structs that are `Sync` and `Send`, ensuring that
  shared references can safely be accessed from multiple threads.
