docs/manual/src/proc_macro/functions.md, before:

# Functions, Constructors, Methods

Functions are exported to the namespace with the `#[uniffi::export]` attribute

```rust
#[uniffi::export]
fn hello_world() -> String {
    "Hello World!".to_owned()
}
```

All our owned types can be used as arguments and return types.

Arguments and receivers can also be references to these types, for example:

```rust
// Input data types as references
#[uniffi::export]
fn process_data(a: &MyRecord, b: &MyEnum, c: &Option<MyRecord>) {
    ...
}
```

To export methods of an interface you can use the [`#[uniffi::export]` attribute on an impl block](./interfaces.md).

## Default values

Exported functions/methods can have default values using the `default` argument of the attribute macro that wraps them.
`default` inputs a comma-separated list of either `[name]` items (where the type's *foreign* default value should be used)
or `[name]=[value]` items (where the default value is specified as a literal).

```rust
#[uniffi::export(default(text = " ", max_splits))]
pub fn split(
    text: String, // will have a default of " "
    sep: String,
    max_splits: Option<u32>, // Will have a default of `None`
) -> Vec<String> {
  ...
}

#[derive(uniffi::Object)]
pub struct TextSplitter { ... }

#[uniffi::export]
impl TextSplitter {
    #[uniffi::constructor(default(ignore_unicode_errors = false))]
    // Because we want the default value for the bool to be `false` it's not necessary to specify it, so
    // we could have written this as:
    // #[uniffi::constructor(default(ignore_unicode_errors))]
    fn new(ignore_unicode_errors: boolean) -> Self {
        ...
    }

    #[uniffi::method(default(text = " ", max_splits))]
    fn split(
        text: String,
        sep: String,
        max_splits: Option<u32>,
    ) -> Vec<String> {
      ...
    }
}
```

Supported defaults without a literal:

| Type | Default value |
|---------|----------------------|
| `Option` | `None` |
| `String` | Empty string |
| `Vec<T>` | Empty list |
| `HashMap<T>` | Empty map |
| Builtin numeric types | 0 |
| `bool` | false |
| Records | Record with all fields set to their default value (only valid if they all have defaults) |
| Objects | Primary constructor called with 0 arguments |
| Custom Types | The default value of "bridge" type |

Supported literal values:

- String, integer, float, and boolean literals
- `Option<T>` allows either `None` or `Some(T)`
- Custom type, which its "bridge" type listed above

### Renaming functions, methods and constructors

A single exported function can specify an alternate name to be used by the bindings by specifying a `name` attribute.

```rust
#[uniffi::export(name = "something")]
fn do_something() {
}
```
will be exposed to foreign bindings as a namespace function `something()`

You can also rename constructors and methods:
```rust
#[uniffi::export]
impl Something {
    // Set this as the default constructor by naming it `new`
    #[uniffi::constructor(name = "new")]
    fn make_new() -> Arc<Self> { ... }

    // Expose this as `obj.something()`
    #[uniffi::method(name = "something")]
    fn do_something(&self) { }
}
```

Commit message:

Allow default values in an enumeration, improve default value docs.
Fixes #2553, fixes #2551

docs/manual/src/proc_macro/functions.md, after:

# Functions, Constructors, Methods

Functions are exported to the namespace with the `#[uniffi::export]` attribute

```rust
#[uniffi::export]
fn hello_world() -> String {
    "Hello World!".to_owned()
}
```

All our owned types can be used as arguments and return types.

Arguments and receivers can also be references to these types, for example:

```rust
// Input data types as references
#[uniffi::export]
fn process_data(a: &MyRecord, b: &MyEnum, c: &Option<MyRecord>) {
    ...
}
```

To export methods of an interface you can use the [`#[uniffi::export]` attribute on an impl block](./interfaces.md).

## Default values

Exported functions/methods can have default values using the `default` argument of the attribute macro that wraps them.
`default` inputs a comma-separated list of either `[name]` items (where the type's *foreign* default value should be used)
or `[name]=[value]` items (where the default value is specified as a literal).

```rust
#[uniffi::export(default(text = " ", max_splits))]
pub fn split(
    text: String, // will have a default of " "
    sep: String,
    max_splits: Option<u32>, // Will have a default of `None`
) -> Vec<String> {
  ...
}
```

The proc-macro has specified we want a literal value as the default for `text`, and the "natural" default for `max_splits`

It works the same for methods:

```rust
#[derive(uniffi::Object)]
pub struct TextSplitter { ... }

#[uniffi::export]
impl TextSplitter {
    #[uniffi::constructor(default(ignore_unicode_errors))]
    fn new(ignore_unicode_errors: boolean) -> Self {
        ...
    }

    #[uniffi::method(default(text = " ", max_splits))]
    fn split(
        &self,
        text: String,
        sep: String,
        max_splits: Option<u32>,
    ) -> Vec<String> {
      ...
    }
}
```

See the [default values docs for more](../types/defaults.md)

### Renaming functions, methods and constructors

A single exported function can specify an alternate name to be used by the bindings by specifying a `name` attribute.

```rust
#[uniffi::export(name = "something")]
fn do_something() {
}
```
will be exposed to foreign bindings as a namespace function `something()`

You can also rename constructors and methods:
```rust
#[uniffi::export]
impl Something {
    // Set this as the default constructor by naming it `new`
    #[uniffi::constructor(name = "new")]
    fn make_new() -> Arc<Self> { ... }

    // Expose this as `obj.something()`
    #[uniffi::method(name = "something")]
    fn do_something(&self) { }
}
```
