docs/manual/src/kotlin/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

The generated Kotlin modules can be configured using a `uniffi.toml` configuration file.

## Available options

| Configuration name | Default  | Description |
| ------------------ | -------  |------------ |
| `package_name`     |  `uniffi` | The Kotlin package name - ie, the value used in the `package` statement at the top of generated files. |
| `cdylib_name`      | `uniffi_{namespace}`[^1] | The name of the compiled Rust library containing the FFI implementation (not needed when using `generate --library`). |
| `custom_types`      | | A map which controls how custom types are exposed to Kotlin. See the [custom types section of the manual](../udl/custom_types.md#custom-types-in-the-bindings-code)|
| `external_packages` | | A map of packages to be used for the specified external crates. The key is the Rust crate name, the value is the Kotlin package which will be used referring to types in that crate. See the [external types section of the manual](../udl/ext_types_external.md#kotlin)


## Example

Custom types
```toml
# Assuming a Custom Type named URL using a String as the builtin.
[bindings.kotlin.custom_types.Url]
# Name of the type in the Kotlin code
type_name = "URL"
# Classes that need to be imported
imports = [ "java.net.URI", "java.net.URL" ]
# Functions to convert between strings and URLs
into_custom = "URI({}).toURL()"
from_custom = "{}.toString()"
```

External types
```toml
[bindings.kotlin.external_packages]
# This specifies that external types from the crate `rust-crate-name` will be referred by by the package `"kotlin.package.name`.
rust-crate-name = "kotlin.package.name"
```

Commit message:

Add support for immutable records in Kotlin and Swift (#1836)

docs/manual/src/kotlin/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

The generated Kotlin modules can be configured using a `uniffi.toml` configuration file.

## Available options

| Configuration name | Default  | Description |
| ------------------ | -------  |------------ |
| `package_name`     |  `uniffi` | The Kotlin package name - ie, the value used in the `package` statement at the top of generated files. |
| `cdylib_name`      | `uniffi_{namespace}`[^1] | The name of the compiled Rust library containing the FFI implementation (not needed when using `generate --library`). |
| `generate_immutable_records` | `false` | Whether to generate records with immutable fields (`val` instead of `var`). |
| `custom_types`      | | A map which controls how custom types are exposed to Kotlin. See the [custom types section of the manual](../udl/custom_types.md#custom-types-in-the-bindings-code)|
| `external_packages` | | A map of packages to be used for the specified external crates. The key is the Rust crate name, the value is the Kotlin package which will be used referring to types in that crate. See the [external types section of the manual](../udl/ext_types_external.md#kotlin)


## Example

Custom types
```toml
# Assuming a Custom Type named URL using a String as the builtin.
[bindings.kotlin.custom_types.Url]
# Name of the type in the Kotlin code
type_name = "URL"
# Classes that need to be imported
imports = [ "java.net.URI", "java.net.URL" ]
# Functions to convert between strings and URLs
into_custom = "URI({}).toURL()"
from_custom = "{}.toString()"
```

External types
```toml
[bindings.kotlin.external_packages]
# This specifies that external types from the crate `rust-crate-name` will be referred by by the package `"kotlin.package.name`.
rust-crate-name = "kotlin.package.name"
```
