examples/README.md, before:

# Example uniffi components

This directory contains some small example components implemented using uniffi. It's currently being used
more as a living test environment than user-facing docs, but hopefully it gives you a bit of an idea of
what we're up to with this crate.

Newcomers are recommended to explore them in the following order:

* [`./arithmetic/`](./arithmetic/) is the most minimal example - just some plain functions that operate
  on integers, and some minimal error handling.
* [`./arithmetic-procmacro/`](./arithmetic-procmacro/) is a copy of the above example implemented using
  procmacros - it has no UDL file nor `build.rs` script.
* [`./geometry/`](./geometry/) shows how to use records and nullable types for working with more complex
  data.
* [`./sprites/`](./sprites/) shows how to work with stateful objects that have methods, in classical
  object-oriented style.
* [`./todolist`](./todolist/) is a simplistic todo-list that can only add items and show the last item,
  meant to show how interacting with strings works.
* [`./rondpoint`](./rondpoint/) exercises complex data types by round-tripping them from the foreign-language
  code, through rust and back again.
* [`./fxa-client`](./fxa-client/) doesn't work yet, but it contains aspirational example of what the UDL
  might look like for an actual real-world component.

Each example has the following structure:

* `src/<namespace>.udl`, the component interface definition which defines the main object and its methods.
  This is processed by functions in `build.rs` to generate Rust scaffolding for the component.
* `src/lib.rs`, the core implementation of the component in Rust. This basically
  pulls in the generated Rust scaffolding via `uniffi::include_scaffolding!()` and fills in function implementations.
* `Cargo.toml` configures the crate to build a `cdylib` with an appropriate name.
* Some small test scripts that double as API examples in each target foreign language:
  * Kotlin `tests/bindings/test_<namespace>.kts`
  * Swift `tests/bindings/test_<namespace>.swift`
  * Python `tests/bindings/test_<namespace>.py`

If you want to try them out, you will need:

* The [Kotlin command-line tools](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/tutorials/command-line.html), particularly `kotlinc`.
* The [Java Native Access](https://github.com/java-native-access/jna#download) JAR downloaded and its path
  added to your `$CLASSPATH` environment variable.
* Python 3
* The [Swift command-line tools](https://swift.org/download/), particularly `swift`, `swiftc` and
  the `Foundation` package.
* The [Ruby FFI](https://github.com/ffi/ffi#installation)
  * `gem install ffi test-unit rubocop`

We publish a [docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/rfkelly/uniffi-ci) that has all of this dependencies
pre-installed, if you want to get up and running quickly.

With that in place, try the following:

* Run `cargo build`. That compiles the component implementation into a native library named `uniffi_<namespace>`
  in `../target/debug/`.
* Run `cargo test`.  This will run each of the foreign-language testcases against the compiled Rust code,
  confirming whether everything is working as intended.
* Explore the build process in more detail:
  * Change to the root directory of this repo, so the `uniffi-bindgen` package referenced below can be found.
  * Run `cargo run --bin uniffi-bindgen -- scaffolding examples/<example>/src/<namespace>.udl`.
    This will generate the Rust scaffolding code which exposes a C FFI for the component.
    You can view the generatd code in `./src/<namespace>.uniffi.rs`.
  * Run `cargo run --bin uniffi-bindgen -- generate --language kotlin examples/<example>/src/<namespace>.udl`.
    This will generate the foreign-language bindings for Kotlin, which load the compiled Rust code
    and use the C FFI generated above to interact with it.
    You can view the generated code in `./src/uniffi/<namespace>/<namespace>.kt`.
  * Try using `--language swift` or `--language python` to explore the foreign-language bindings
    generated for other languages.

Commit message:

Foreign-implemented async trait methods (#2017)
These methods input a completion function that they call when the async
function is complete. They return a ForeignFuture struct, which
represents the foreign task object and is used to drop/cancel futures.
Like Rust, dropping and cancelling are coupled together into one operation.

- Added `RustCallStatus` as an `FfiType` variant, since I wanted to use
  it in the `ForeignFutureResult` structs.  In theory, we could define
  `RustCallStatus` a `FfiType::Struct`, but I didn't want to introduce
  that change in this PR.
- Fixed the result mapping code to work with async functions.  Before we
  were executing the mapping call, then awaiting the result, but we need
  to do that in the opposite order (`foo.into().await` vs `foo.await.into()`).
  Also, specify the return type generics for `rust_future_new` so that
  the Rust can figure out the into() generics.

examples/README.md, after:

# Example uniffi components

This directory contains some small example components implemented using uniffi. It's currently being used
more as a living test environment than user-facing docs, but hopefully it gives you a bit of an idea of
what we're up to with this crate.

Newcomers are recommended to explore them in the following order:

* [`./arithmetic/`](./arithmetic/) is the most minimal example - just some plain functions that operate
  on integers, and some minimal error handling.
* [`./arithmetic-procmacro/`](./arithmetic-procmacro/) is a copy of the above example implemented using
  procmacros - it has no UDL file nor `build.rs` script.
* [`./geometry/`](./geometry/) shows how to use records and nullable types for working with more complex
  data.
* [`./sprites/`](./sprites/) shows how to work with stateful objects that have methods, in classical
  object-oriented style.
* [`./todolist`](./todolist/) is a simplistic todo-list that can only add items and show the last item,
  meant to show how interacting with strings works.
* [`./rondpoint`](./rondpoint/) exercises complex data types by round-tripping them from the foreign-language
  code, through rust and back again.
* [`./fxa-client`](./fxa-client/) doesn't work yet, but it contains aspirational example of what the UDL
  might look like for an actual real-world component.
* [`./async-api-client`](./async-api-client/) shows how to handle async calls across the FFI.  The
  foreign code supplies the HTTP client, the Rust code uses that client to expose a GitHub API
  client, then the foreign code consumes the client.  All code on both sides of the FFI is async.

Each example has the following structure:

* `src/<namespace>.udl`, the component interface definition which defines the main object and its methods.
  This is processed by functions in `build.rs` to generate Rust scaffolding for the component.
* `src/lib.rs`, the core implementation of the component in Rust. This basically
  pulls in the generated Rust scaffolding via `uniffi::include_scaffolding!()` and fills in function implementations.
* `Cargo.toml` configures the crate to build a `cdylib` with an appropriate name.
* Some small test scripts that double as API examples in each target foreign language:
  * Kotlin `tests/bindings/test_<namespace>.kts`
  * Swift `tests/bindings/test_<namespace>.swift`
  * Python `tests/bindings/test_<namespace>.py`

If you want to try them out, you will need:

* The [Kotlin command-line tools](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/tutorials/command-line.html), particularly `kotlinc`.
* The [Java Native Access](https://github.com/java-native-access/jna#download) JAR downloaded and its path
  added to your `$CLASSPATH` environment variable.
* Python 3
* The [Swift command-line tools](https://swift.org/download/), particularly `swift`, `swiftc` and
  the `Foundation` package.
* The [Ruby FFI](https://github.com/ffi/ffi#installation)
  * `gem install ffi test-unit rubocop`

We publish a [docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/rfkelly/uniffi-ci) that has all of this dependencies
pre-installed, if you want to get up and running quickly.

With that in place, try the following:

* Run `cargo build`. That compiles the component implementation into a native library named `uniffi_<namespace>`
  in `../target/debug/`.
* Run `cargo test`.  This will run each of the foreign-language testcases against the compiled Rust code,
  confirming whether everything is working as intended.
* Explore the build process in more detail:
  * Change to the root directory of this repo, so the `uniffi-bindgen` package referenced below can be found.
  * Run `cargo run --bin uniffi-bindgen -- scaffolding examples/<example>/src/<namespace>.udl`.
    This will generate the Rust scaffolding code which exposes a C FFI for the component.
    You can view the generatd code in `./src/<namespace>.uniffi.rs`.
  * Run `cargo run --bin uniffi-bindgen -- generate --language kotlin examples/<example>/src/<namespace>.udl`.
    This will generate the foreign-language bindings for Kotlin, which load the compiled Rust code
    and use the C FFI generated above to interact with it.
    You can view the generated code in `./src/uniffi/<namespace>/<namespace>.kt`.
  * Try using `--language swift` or `--language python` to explore the foreign-language bindings
    generated for other languages.
