docs/manual/src/tutorial/foreign_language_bindings.md, before:

# Foreign-language bindings

By now you have setup your crate and `cargo build` has successfully created your library.

The next step is to have UniFFI generate source code for your foreign language. It doesn't help you build this code, it just generates it for you.

## Creating the bindgen binary

First, make sure you have installed all the [prerequisites](./Prerequisites.md).

Ideally you would then run the `uniffi-bindgen` binary from the `uniffi` crate to generate your bindings,
but if not on [Cargo nightly](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/unstable.html#artifact-dependencies),
you need to create a binary in your project that does the same thing.

Add the following to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[[bin]]
# This can be whatever name makes sense for your project, but the rest of this tutorial assumes uniffi-bindgen.
name = "uniffi-bindgen"
path = "uniffi-bindgen.rs"
```

Create `uniffi-bindgen.rs`:
```rust
fn main() {
    uniffi::uniffi_bindgen_main()
}
```

You can now run `uniffi-bindgen` from your project using `cargo run --features=uniffi/cli --bin uniffi-bindgen [args]`

### Multi-crate workspaces

In a multiple crates workspace, you can create a separate crate for running `uniffi-bindgen`:

  - Name the crate `uniffi-bindgen`, add it to your workspace.
  - Add this dependency to `Cargo.toml`: `uniffi = {version = "0.XX.0", features = ["cli"] }`
  - As above, add the `uniffi-bindgen` binary target

Then your can run `uniffi-bindgen` from any crate in your project using `cargo run -p uniffi-bindgen [args]`

## Running uniffi-bindgen using a library file

Use `generate --library` to generate foreign bindings by using a cdylib file built for your library.
This can be more convenient than specifying the UDL file -- especially when multiple UniFFI-ed crates are built together in one library.
This should be used where possible - some "external type" features don't work otherwise.

In our example, we generate the bindings with:
```
cargo build --release
cargo run --bin uniffi-bindgen generate --library target/release/libmath.so --language kotlin --out-dir out
```
(maybe `.dylib`, good luck with `.dll`!)

Then look in the `out` directory.

When using library mode, if multiple crates get built into the library that use UniFFI, all will have bindings generated for them.

Library mode comes with some extra requirements:

  - It must be run from within the cargo workspace of your project
  - Each crate must use exactly 1 UDL file when compiling the Rust library.  However, crates can have
    multiple UDL files as long as they ensure only one is used for any particular build,
    e.g. by using feature flags.
  - Rust sources must use `uniffi::include_scaffolding!` to include the scaffolding code.

## Running uniffi-bindgen with a single UDL file

As noted above, library mode is encouraged - building from a single UDL is not recommended.

Use the `generate` command to generate bindings by specifying a UDL file.

### Kotlin

From the example directory, run:
```
cargo run --bin uniffi-bindgen generate src/math.udl --language kotlin
```
then have a look at `src/uniffi/math/math.kt`

### Swift

Run
```
cargo run --bin uniffi-bindgen generate src/math.udl --language swift
```
then check out `src/math.swift`

Note that these commands could be integrated as part of your gradle/Xcode build process.

This is it, you have an MVP integration of UniFFI in your project.

Commit message:

Bindgen docs note that uniffi metadata is portable, fixes #2507 (#2744)

docs/manual/src/tutorial/foreign_language_bindings.md, after:

# Foreign-language bindings

By now you have setup your crate and `cargo build` has successfully created your library.

The next step is to have UniFFI generate source code for your foreign language. It doesn't help you build this code, it just generates it for you.

## Creating the bindgen binary

First, make sure you have installed all the [prerequisites](./Prerequisites.md).

Ideally you would then run the `uniffi-bindgen` binary from the `uniffi` crate to generate your bindings,
but if not on [Cargo nightly](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/unstable.html#artifact-dependencies),
you need to create a binary in your project that does the same thing.

While the general principles are the same, the setup differs whether you are a single crate or in a cargo workspace,
but either way, you'll end up with a `cargo run [...] uniffi-bindgen ...` command to generate the bindings.

### Single crate

Add the following to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[[bin]]
# This can be whatever name makes sense for your project, but the rest of this tutorial assumes uniffi-bindgen.
name = "uniffi-bindgen"
path = "uniffi-bindgen.rs"
```

Create `uniffi-bindgen.rs`:
```rust
fn main() {
    uniffi::uniffi_bindgen_main()
}
```

You can now run `uniffi-bindgen` from your project using `cargo run --features=uniffi/cli --bin uniffi-bindgen [args]`

### Multi-crate workspaces

In a multiple crates workspace, you can create a separate crate for running `uniffi-bindgen`:

  - Name the crate `uniffi-bindgen`, add it to your workspace.
  - Add this dependency to `Cargo.toml`: `uniffi = {version = "0.XX.0", features = ["cli"] }`
  - As above, add the `uniffi-bindgen` binary target

Then you can run `uniffi-bindgen` from any crate in your project using `cargo run -p uniffi-bindgen [args]`

## Running uniffi-bindgen using a library file

Use `generate --library` to generate foreign bindings by using a cdylib file built for your library.
This can be more convenient than specifying the UDL file -- especially when multiple UniFFI-ed crates are built together in one library.
This should be used where possible - some "external type" features don't work otherwise.

In our example, we generate the bindings with:
```
cargo build --release
cargo run --bin uniffi-bindgen generate --library target/release/libmath.so --language kotlin --out-dir out
```
(probably `.dylib` on mac, good luck with `.dll`!)

Then look in the `out` directory.

When using library mode, if multiple crates get built into the library that use UniFFI, all will have bindings generated for them.

Library mode comes with some extra requirements:

  - It must be run from within the cargo workspace of your project
  - Each crate must use exactly 1 UDL file when compiling the Rust library.  However, crates can have
    multiple UDL files as long as they ensure only one is used for any particular build,
    e.g. by using feature flags.
  - Rust sources must use `uniffi::include_scaffolding!` to include the scaffolding code.

### Cross platform and multi architecture support

UniFFI metadata embedded in libraries is platform and architecture agnostic, which might be useful in cross-compiled environments.
You must still take care here, as the underlying Rust code could have its own conditional compilation;
only the exact library is guaranteed to have the correct metadata for that library.

## Running uniffi-bindgen with a single UDL file

Generating from a single UDL is deprecated - a single crate with no proc-macro implementations doesn't seem realistic - but we support it aalmost by accident for legacy reasons.

Use the `generate` command to generate bindings by specifying a UDL file.

### Kotlin

From the example directory, run:
```
cargo run --bin uniffi-bindgen generate src/math.udl --language kotlin
```
then have a look at `src/uniffi/math/math.kt`

### Swift

Run
```
cargo run --bin uniffi-bindgen generate src/math.udl --language swift
```
then check out `src/math.swift`

Note that these commands could be integrated as part of your gradle/Xcode build process.

This is it, you have an MVP integration of UniFFI in your project.
