docs/manual/src/udl/custom_types.md, before:

# Custom types

Custom types allow you to extend the UniFFI type system to support types from your Rust crate or 3rd
party libraries.  This relies on a [builtin](./builtin_types.md) UDL type move data across the
FFI, followed by a conversion to your custom type.

## Custom types in the scaffolding code

Consider the following trivial Rust abstraction for a "handle" which wraps an integer:

```rust
pub struct Handle(i64);
```

You can use this type in your udl by declaring it via a `typedef` with a `Custom` attribute,
defining the builtin type that it's based on.

```idl
[Custom]
typedef i64 Handle;
```

For this to work, your Rust code must also implement a special trait named
`UniffiCustomTypeConverter`. This trait is generated by UniFFI and can be found in the generated
Rust scaffolding - it is defined as:

```Rust
trait UniffiCustomTypeConverter {
    type Builtin;

    fn into_custom(val: Self::Builtin) -> uniffi::Result<Self>
    where
        Self: Sized;
    fn from_custom(obj: Self) -> Self::Builtin;
}
```

where `Builtin` is the Rust type corresponding to the UniFFI builtin-type - `i64` in the example above. Thus, the trait
implementation for `Handle` would look something like:

```rust
impl UniffiCustomTypeConverter for Handle {
    type Builtin = i64;

    fn into_custom(val: Self::Builtin) -> uniffi::Result<Self> {
        Ok(Handle(val))
    }

    fn from_custom(obj: Self) -> Self::Builtin {
        obj.0
    }
}
```

Because `UniffiCustomTypeConverter` is defined in each crate, this means you can use custom types even
if they are not defined in your crate - see the 'custom_types' example which demonstrates
`url::Url` as a custom type.

## Error handling during conversion

You might have noticed that the `into_custom` function returns a `uniffi::Result<Self>` (which is an
alias for `anyhow::Result`) and might be wondering what happens if you return an `Err`.

It depends on the context. In short:

* If the value is being used as an argument to a function/constructor that does not return
  a `Result` (ie, does not have the `throws` attribute in the .udl), then the uniffi generated
  scaffolding code will `panic!()`

* If the value is being used as an argument to a function/constructor that *does* return a
  `Result` (ie, does have a `throws` attribute in the .udl), then the uniffi generated
  scaffolding code will use `anyhow::Error::downcast()` to try and convert the failure into
  that declared error type and:
  * If that conversion succeeds, it will be used as the `Err` for the function.
  * If that conversion fails, it will `panic()`

### Example
For example, consider the following UDL:
```idl
[Custom]
typedef i64 Handle;

[Error]
enum ExampleError {
    "InvalidHandle"
};

namespace errors_example {
    take_handle_1(Handle handle);

    [Throws=ExampleError]
    take_handle_2(Handle handle);
}
```

and the following Rust:
```rust
#[derive(Debug, thiserror::Error)]
pub enum ExampleError {
    #[error("The handle is invalid")]
    InvalidHandle,
}

impl UniffiCustomTypeConverter for ExampleHandle {
    type Builtin = i64;

    fn into_custom(val: Self::Builtin) -> uniffi::Result<Self> {
        if val == 0 {
            Err(ExampleErrors::InvalidHandle.into())
        } else if val == -1 {
            Err(SomeOtherError.into()) // SomeOtherError decl. not shown.
        } else {
            Ok(Handle(val))
        }
    }
    // ...
}
```

The behavior of the generated scaffolding will be:

* Calling `take_handle_1` with a value of `0` or `-1` will always panic.
* Calling `take_handle_2` with a value of `0` will throw an `ExampleError` exception
* Calling `take_handle_2` with a value of `-1` will always panic.
* All other values will return `Ok(ExampleHandle)`

## Custom types in the bindings code

*Note: The facility described in this document is not yet available for the Ruby bindings.*

By default, the foreign bindings just see the builtin type - eg, the bindings will get an integer
for the `Handle`.

However, custom types can also be converted on the bindings side.  For example, a Url type could be
configured to use the `java.net.URL` class in Kotlin by adding code like this to `uniffi.toml`:

```toml
[bindings.kotlin.custom_types.Url]
# Name of the type in the Kotlin code
type_name = "URL"
# Classes that need to be imported
imports = [ "java.net.URL" ]
# Expression to convert the builtin type the custom type.  In this example, `{}` will be replaced with the int value.
into_custom = "URL({})"
# Expression to convert the custom type to the builtin type.  In this example, `{}` will be replaced with the URL value.
from_custom = "{}.toString()"
```

Here's how the configuration works in `uniffi.toml`.

* Create a `[bindings.{language}.custom_types.{CustomTypeName}]` table to enable a custom type on a bindings side.  This has several subkeys:
  * `type_name` (Optional, Typed languages only): Type/class name for the
    custom type.  Defaults to the type name used in the UDL.  Note: The UDL
    type name will still be used in generated function signatures, however it
    will be defined as a typealias to this type.
  * `into_custom`: Expression to convert the UDL type to the custom type.  `{}` will be replaced with the value of the UDL type.
  * `from_custom`: Expression to convert the custom type to the UDL type.  `{}` will be replaced with the value of the custom type.
  * `imports` (Optional) list of modules to import for your `into_custom`/`from_custom` functions.

## Using Custom Types from other crates

To use the `Handle` example above from another crate, these other crates just refer to the type
as a regular `External` type - for example, another crate might use `udl` such as:

```idl
[External="crate_defining_handle_name"]
typedef extern Handle;
```

Commit message:

Python: Fix custom types generating invalid code when there are forward references.
Also includes many other custom-type tests, all of which work, and clarifies
in the docs about which types can be used with custom types.

Fixes #2067

docs/manual/src/udl/custom_types.md, after:

# Custom types

Custom types allow you to extend the UniFFI type system to support types from your Rust crate or 3rd
party libraries. This works by converting to and from some other UniFFI type to move data across the
FFI. You must provide a `UniffiCustomTypeConverter` implementation to convert the types.

## Custom types in the scaffolding code

Consider the following trivial Rust abstraction for a "handle" which wraps an integer:

```rust
pub struct Handle(i64);
```

In this trivial example, the simplest way to expose this is with a macro.

```
uniffi::custom_newtype!(Handle, i64);
```

Or you can define this in UDL via a `typedef` with a `Custom` attribute,
defining the builtin type that it's based on.

```idl
[Custom]
typedef i64 Handle;
```

For this to work, your Rust code must also implement a special trait named
`UniffiCustomTypeConverter`.

An implementation is provided if you used the `uniffi::custom_newtype!()` macro.
But if you use UDL or otherwise need to implement your own:

This trait is generated by UniFFI and can be found in the generated
Rust scaffolding - it is defined as:

```Rust
trait UniffiCustomTypeConverter {
    type Builtin;

    fn into_custom(val: Self::Builtin) -> uniffi::Result<Self>
    where
        Self: Sized;
    fn from_custom(obj: Self) -> Self::Builtin;
}
```

where `Builtin` is the Rust type corresponding to the UniFFI builtin-type - `i64` in the example above. Thus, the trait
implementation for `Handle` would look something like:

```rust
impl UniffiCustomTypeConverter for Handle {
    type Builtin = i64;

    fn into_custom(val: Self::Builtin) -> uniffi::Result<Self> {
        Ok(Handle(val))
    }

    fn from_custom(obj: Self) -> Self::Builtin {
        obj.0
    }
}
```

Because `UniffiCustomTypeConverter` is defined in each crate, this means you can use custom types even
if they are not defined in your crate - see the 'custom_types' example which demonstrates
`url::Url` as a custom type.

## Error handling during conversion

You might have noticed that the `into_custom` function returns a `uniffi::Result<Self>` (which is an
alias for `anyhow::Result`) and might be wondering what happens if you return an `Err`.

It depends on the context. In short:

* If the value is being used as an argument to a function/constructor that does not return
  a `Result` (ie, does not have the `throws` attribute in the .udl), then the uniffi generated
  scaffolding code will `panic!()`

* If the value is being used as an argument to a function/constructor that *does* return a
  `Result` (ie, does have a `throws` attribute in the .udl), then the uniffi generated
  scaffolding code will use `anyhow::Error::downcast()` to try and convert the failure into
  that declared error type and:
  * If that conversion succeeds, it will be used as the `Err` for the function.
  * If that conversion fails, it will `panic()`

### Example
For example, consider the following UDL:
```idl
[Custom]
typedef i64 Handle;

[Error]
enum ExampleError {
    "InvalidHandle"
};

namespace errors_example {
    take_handle_1(Handle handle);

    [Throws=ExampleError]
    take_handle_2(Handle handle);
}
```

and the following Rust:
```rust
#[derive(Debug, thiserror::Error)]
pub enum ExampleError {
    #[error("The handle is invalid")]
    InvalidHandle,
}

impl UniffiCustomTypeConverter for ExampleHandle {
    type Builtin = i64;

    fn into_custom(val: Self::Builtin) -> uniffi::Result<Self> {
        if val == 0 {
            Err(ExampleErrors::InvalidHandle.into())
        } else if val == -1 {
            Err(SomeOtherError.into()) // SomeOtherError decl. not shown.
        } else {
            Ok(Handle(val))
        }
    }
    // ...
}
```

The behavior of the generated scaffolding will be:

* Calling `take_handle_1` with a value of `0` or `-1` will always panic.
* Calling `take_handle_2` with a value of `0` will throw an `ExampleError` exception
* Calling `take_handle_2` with a value of `-1` will always panic.
* All other values will return `Ok(ExampleHandle)`

## Custom types in the bindings code

*Note: The facility described in this document is not yet available for the Ruby bindings.*

By default, the foreign bindings just see the builtin type - eg, the bindings will get an integer
for the `Handle`.

However, custom types can also be converted on the bindings side.  For example, a Url type could be
configured to use the `java.net.URL` class in Kotlin by adding code like this to `uniffi.toml`:

```toml
[bindings.kotlin.custom_types.Url]
# Name of the type in the Kotlin code
type_name = "URL"
# Classes that need to be imported
imports = [ "java.net.URL" ]
# Expression to convert the builtin type the custom type.  In this example, `{}` will be replaced with the int value.
into_custom = "URL({})"
# Expression to convert the custom type to the builtin type.  In this example, `{}` will be replaced with the URL value.
from_custom = "{}.toString()"
```

Here's how the configuration works in `uniffi.toml`.

* Create a `[bindings.{language}.custom_types.{CustomTypeName}]` table to enable a custom type on a bindings side.  This has several subkeys:
  * `type_name` (Optional, Typed languages only): Type/class name for the
    custom type.  Defaults to the type name used in the UDL.  Note: The UDL
    type name will still be used in generated function signatures, however it
    will be defined as a typealias to this type.
  * `into_custom`: Expression to convert the UDL type to the custom type.  `{}` will be replaced with the value of the UDL type.
  * `from_custom`: Expression to convert the custom type to the UDL type.  `{}` will be replaced with the value of the custom type.
  * `imports` (Optional) list of modules to import for your `into_custom`/`from_custom` functions.

## Using Custom Types from other crates

To use the `Handle` example above from another crate, these other crates just refer to the type
as a regular `External` type - for example, another crate might use `udl` such as:

```idl
[External="crate_defining_handle_name"]
typedef extern Handle;
```
